JUDY WOODRUFF, PBS NEWSHOUR
ANCHOR: Good evening.
I'’m Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
amidst new allegations
of Donald Trump assaulting
women, we explore
how women voters in North
Carolina are responding
to an election increasingly
about gender.
Then, Jeffrey Brown sits down
with comedian
Seth Meyers to get his take on
how the late
night talk shows are taking on
the presidential
candidates.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SETH MEYERS, COMEDIAN: I don't
think in comedy
support is a particularly funny
position to
have.
I think it's far more-- it's far
funnier to
point out people's flaws as
opposed to pointing
out their strengths.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
are here to
analyze another packed week of
news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour".
(BREAK)
WOODRUFF: The Republican nominee
for president
is under siege tonight: more
women have come
forward to say they were fondled
or groped
by Donald Trump.
Lisa Desjardins has more on the
day's events.
And warning to our viewers: some
details of
this report are explicit.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
LISA DESJARDINS, PBS NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT:
The first new accusation
appeared on "The
Washington Post's" website.
In graphic terms, Kristin
Anderson described
sitting next to Trump at a
nightclub in the
early 1990s.
KRISTIN ANDERSON, TRUMP ACCUSER:
The person
to my right, who unbeknownst to
me at the
time was Donald Trump, put their
hand up my
skirt.
And I as pushed the hand away
and I got up
and I turned around and I see
these eyebrows
-- very distinct eyebrows of
Donald Trump.
DESJARDINS: She said that he
touched her genitals
through her underwear.
Hours later, in Los Angeles,
attorney Gloria
Allred introduced a one-time
contestant on
"The Apprentice."
Summers Zervos said Trump
assaulted her in
a hotel room when she thought
she was there
to talk about a job.
SUMMER ZERVOS, TRUMP ACCUSER: He
grabbed my
shoulder and began kissing me
aggressively,
and placed his hand on my
breast.
I pulled back walked to another
part of the
room, and he grabbed my hand and
took me to
the bedroom.
I walked out.
DESJARDINS: The candidate
himself fired back
in Greensboro, North Carolina.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE:
They all are false.
They're totally invented,
fiction.
All 100 percent totally and
completely fabricated.
DESJARDINS: Trump's campaign
said the timing
points to a political smear.
And he mocked Anderson's account
of assault
in a nightclub.
TRUMP: I was sitting alone by
myself like
this and then I went wah.
DESJARDINS: This after running
mate Governor
Mike Pence told the "Today"
show's Matt Lauer
that Trump will release evidence
disproving
the accusations.
GOV.
MIKE PENCE (R), VICE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
Well, Matt, I think it's coming
and it's coming
in frankly probably, in a matter
of hours.
DESJARDINS: As of late
afternoon, the Trump
campaign had not released any
new information.
In Cleveland, President Obama
went after Trump
directly.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES:
All he had time for was
celebrities.
Now all of a suddenly, he'’s
acting like
populist out there.
"Man, I'’m going to fight for
working people."
Come on, man.
You want to know what somebody's
gonna do
-- look what they've been doing
their whole
lives.
DESJARDINS: Meanwhile, Hillary
Clinton, in
a taped interview, talked to
Ellen DeGeneres
about Trump's physical presence
during Sunday's
debate.
HILLARY CLINTON (D),
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
He was really trying to dominate
and literally
stalk me around the stage.
And I would just feel this
presence behind
me and, you know, I thought,
"Whoa, this is
really weird".
And so, I was just trying to
stay focused.
DESJARDINS: Clinton was also in
print.
She gave a series of written
answers under
penalty of perjury about her use
of private
e-mail, as secretary of state,
this as part
of a private lawsuit.
Her lawyers wrote that Clinton
did not recall
any warning that her email
account conflicted
with or violated federal laws.
Twenty-five days left until
election day and
we clearly are not done with the
twists and
turns of this campaign season
yet.
For the "PBS NewsHour", I'’m Lisa
Desjardins.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WOODRUFF: Late this afternoon,
the Trump campaign
released a statement from Mr.
Trump denying
that he ever acted
inappropriately with
"Apprentice"
contestant Summer Zervos.
In the day's other news,
Medicare is about
to have one of the biggest
overhauls in its
50 year history -- changing how
it pays doctors
and other clinicians.
Starting in 2019, they can
choose to be compensated
for quality of service, rather
than quantity.
If they do, they'll be paid
more.
The new system rolled out in
detail today
is the product of bi-partisan
legislation
that passed Congress last year.
The flood tide from Hurricane
Matthew kept
pushing toward the North
Carolina coast today,
and the death toll count kept
rising to at
least 24.
Swollen rivers have put parts of
some towns
ten feet under water.
Today, Governor Pat McCrory
visited the hard-hit
city of Tarboro, and promised
aid.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV.
PAT MCCRORY (R), NORTH CAROLINA:
The people
don't know how difficult a
situation they're
about to enter when the water
clears.
I'd say 80 percent of this town
is under water
at this point in time.
And we've got to prepare them
for that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: A judge also ordered
36 counties
in North Carolina to extend
voter registration
due to flooding, after the
state's election
board was sued by the Democratic
Party.
The deadline was also extended
in and around
Savannah, Georgia.
In Syria: fresh air strikes
blasted the city
of Aleppo, as rebels warned food
and medicine
is running low.
The city's rebel-held east is
again under
heavy bombardment, and President
Bashar al-Assad
is insisting that it be
recaptured.
He spoke to a Russian newspaper.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PRES.
BASHAR AL-ASSAD, SYRIA: First of
all, it has
political gain, on the strategic
level, political
gain and national gain.
It'’s going to be the springboard
as a big
city, to move to another areas,
to liberate
another areas from the
terrorists.
You have to clean.
You have to keep cleaning this
area and to
push the terrorists to go back
to where they
come from, or to kill them.
There's no other option.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: All of this, as
Secretary of State
John Kerry prepares to meet with
his Russian
counterpart tomorrow, in a new
effort to rekindle
ceasefire talks.
Buddhist funeral rites have
begun in Thailand,
for the man who was the world's
longest- reigning
monarch.
Thousands gathered in Bangkok
today for a
royal procession and ceremonies
to mourn the
king, who died yesterday.
He ruled for 70 years, enjoying
enormous popularity
and ties to the military regime.
The body will be cremated in the
months ahead.
Back in this country, the
Transportation Department
has banned all passengers and
crews from bringing
Samsung Galaxy Note 7
smartphones on board
planes.
They issued the emergency order
after reports
of the device catching fire.
Samsung had already discontinued
the phones
earlier this week.
United Airlines says it has
resolved an overnight
computer glitch that delayed
thousands of
passengers worldwide.
Travelers from Paris to New York
reported
waiting up to several hours.
It comes just two months after
Delta Airlines
canceled thousands of flights
after a power
outage affected its computers.
As of today, it's a lot easier
to bring Cuban
cigars and rum into the U.S.
The Obama administration says
it's relaxing
limits on bringing those
products back from
Cuba.
Now, returning travelers will be
allowed up
to 100 cigars, and several
bottles of rum.
It's the latest loosening of the
trade embargo
on Cuba.
The U.S. Treasury Department
reports running
a $587 billion budget deficit
this past fiscal
year.
That's up 34 percent over the
previous fiscal
year, due to a slowdown in
revenues and higher
government spending.
And on Wall Street, stocks
closed higher,
led by gains in the technology
and banking
sectors.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average
climbed 39
points to close at 18,138.
The NASDAQ rose nearly a point,
and the S&P
500 added half a point.
For the week, the Dow lost a
fraction of a
percent, and both the NASDAQ and
the S&P 500
fell around 1 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour",
how some
women in the swing state of
North Carolina
see this election, an investor's
view of the
presidential candidates, Mark
Shields and
David Brooks weigh in on the
Trump allegations,
and Seth Meyers on comedy's role
in this year's
election.
(BREAK)
WOODRUFF: Rarely has the female
vote held
as much sway in a presidential
race as this
year, even before the recent
allegations of
sexual aggression were leveled
against Donald
Trump.
This week, I traveled to the
crucial swing
state of North Carolina -- a
state that voted
Obama in 2008, but flipped to
Mitt Romney
and the Republicans in 2012.
Four years later, there's no
slice of electorate
being fought over more than
college educated
white women -- and that's who we
went looking
for.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I
originally thought
this cartoon of a man is not
going to get
very far, and how could he?
And here we are.
And I am disgusted.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is
just basically
saying, "Well, boys will be
boys."
Not acceptable.
Not acceptable to me.
And certainly not becoming of
someone I would
wish to be our president.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I wouldn't
want that
man in my home, I wouldn't want
him in my
classroom.
So, I don't want him in my White
House.
WOODRUFF: A few of the reactions
from women
voters we talked to in North
Carolina.
Even women looking for a
Republican to support,
were repelled they said by the
11-year-old
video of Donald Trump.
TRUMP: I better use some Tic
Tacs just in
case I start kissing her.
WOODRUFF: And coming in the
final month of
the campaign, it and the
accusations of the
past few days have thrown the
already-crucial
women's vote here into sharper
relief.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you
guys registered
to vote?
WOODRUFF: If you needed proof of
how much
the Tar Heel state's 15
electoral votes matter,
look no further than the campus
of the University
of North Carolina in Chapel
Hill.
Clinton volunteers were in a
last-minute push
to meet today's voter
registration deadline.
Among the most coveted voters
are college-educated
white women, who in 2012 gave
Mitt Romney
a six point advantage
nationally.
This year, polls show Donald
Trump is losing
them by a staggering 30 points.
FERREL GUILLORY, DIRECTOR,
PROGRAM ON PUBLIC
LIFE AT UNC: Frankly, women,
women are gonna
make up their own minds, you
know, unlike
you know, kind of the old South,
where everybody
voted together.
And women went to vote the way
their husbands
did.
JUDY WOODRUFF, PBS NEWSHOUR
ANCHOR: Good evening.
I'’m Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
amidst new allegations
of Donald Trump assaulting
women, we explore
how women voters in North
Carolina are responding
to an election increasingly
about gender.
Then, Jeffrey Brown sits down
with comedian
Seth Meyers to get his take on
how the late
night talk shows are taking on
the presidential
candidates.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
SETH MEYERS, COMEDIAN: I don't
think in comedy
support is a particularly funny
position to
have. I think it's far more--
it's far funnier
to point out people's flaws as
opposed to
pointing out their strengths.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: And it's Friday. Mark
Shields and
David Brooks are here to analyze
another packed
week of news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour".
(BREAK)
WOODRUFF: The Republican nominee
for president
is under siege tonight: more
women have come
forward to say they were fondled
or groped
by Donald Trump.
Lisa Desjardins has more on the
day's events.
And warning to our viewers: some
details of
this report are explicit.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
LISA DESJARDINS, PBS NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT:
The first new accusation
appeared on "The
Washington Post's" website. In
graphic terms,
Kristin Anderson described
sitting next to
Trump at a nightclub in the
early 1990s.
KRISTIN ANDERSON, TRUMP ACCUSER:
The person
to my right, who unbeknownst to
me at the
time was Donald Trump, put their
hand up my
skirt. And I as pushed the hand
away and I
got up and I turned around and I
see these
eyebrows -- very distinct
eyebrows of Donald
Trump.
DESJARDINS: She said that he
touched her genitals
through her underwear. Hours
later, in Los
Angeles, attorney Gloria Allred
introduced
a one-time contestant on "The
Apprentice."
Summers Zervos said Trump
assaulted her in
a hotel room when she thought
she was there
to talk about a job.
SUMMER ZERVOS, TRUMP ACCUSER: He
grabbed my
shoulder and began kissing me
aggressively,
and placed his hand on my
breast. I pulled
back walked to another part of
the room, and
he grabbed my hand and took me
to the bedroom.
I walked out.
DESJARDINS: The candidate
himself fired back
in Greensboro, North Carolina.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE:
They all are false. They're
totally invented,
fiction. All 100 percent totally
and completely
fabricated.
DESJARDINS: Trump's campaign
said the timing
points to a political smear. And
he mocked
Anderson's account of assault in
a nightclub.
TRUMP: I was sitting alone by
myself like
this and then I went wah.
DESJARDINS: This after running
mate Governor
Mike Pence told the "Today"
show's Matt Lauer
that Trump will release evidence
disproving
the accusations.
GOV. MIKE PENCE (R), VICE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
Well, Matt, I think it's coming
and it's coming
in frankly probably, in a matter
of hours.
DESJARDINS: As of late
afternoon, the Trump
campaign had not released any
new information.
In Cleveland, President Obama
went after Trump
directly.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES:
All he had time for was
celebrities. Now all
of a suddenly, he'’s acting like
populist
out there. "Man, I'’m going to
fight for
working people." Come on, man.
You want to know what somebody's
gonna do
-- look what they've been doing
their whole
lives.
DESJARDINS: Meanwhile, Hillary
Clinton, in
a taped interview, talked to
Ellen DeGeneres
about Trump's physical presence
during Sunday's
debate.
HILLARY CLINTON (D),
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
He was really trying to dominate
and literally
stalk me around the stage. And I
would just
feel this presence behind me
and, you know,
I thought, "Whoa, this is really
weird". And
so, I was just trying to stay
focused.
DESJARDINS: Clinton was also in
print. She
gave a series of written answers
under penalty
of perjury about her use of
private e-mail,
as secretary of state, this as
part of a private
lawsuit. Her lawyers wrote that
Clinton did
not recall any warning that her
email account
conflicted with or violated
federal laws.
Twenty-five days left until
election day and
we clearly are not done with the
twists and
turns of this campaign season
yet.
For the "PBS NewsHour", I'’m Lisa
Desjardins.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WOODRUFF: Late this afternoon,
the Trump campaign
released a statement from Mr.
Trump denying
that he ever acted
inappropriately with
"Apprentice"
contestant Summer Zervos.
In the day's other news,
Medicare is about
to have one of the biggest
overhauls in its
50 year history -- changing how
it pays doctors
and other clinicians. Starting
in 2019, they
can choose to be compensated for
quality of
service, rather than quantity.
If they do,
they'll be paid more. The new
system rolled
out in detail today is the
product of bi-partisan
legislation that passed Congress
last year.
The flood tide from Hurricane
Matthew kept
pushing toward the North
Carolina coast today,
and the death toll count kept
rising to at
least 24. Swollen rivers have
put parts of
some towns ten feet under water.
Today, Governor
Pat McCrory visited the hard-hit
city of Tarboro,
and promised aid.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
GOV. PAT MCCRORY (R), NORTH
CAROLINA: The
people don't know how difficult
a situation
they're about to enter when the
water clears.
I'd say 80 percent of this town
is under water
at this point in time. And we've
got to prepare
them for that.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: A judge also ordered
36 counties
in North Carolina to extend
voter registration
due to flooding, after the
state's election
board was sued by the Democratic
Party. The
deadline was also extended in
and around Savannah,
Georgia.
In Syria: fresh air strikes
blasted the city
of Aleppo, as rebels warned food
and medicine
is running low. The city's
rebel-held east
is again under heavy
bombardment, and President
Bashar al-Assad is insisting
that it be recaptured.
He spoke to a Russian newspaper.
(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)
PRES. BASHAR AL-ASSAD, SYRIA:
First of all,
it has political gain, on the
strategic level,
political gain and national
gain. It'’s going
to be the springboard as a big
city, to move
to another areas, to liberate
another areas
from the terrorists. You have to
clean. You
have to keep cleaning this area
and to push
the terrorists to go back to
where they come
from, or to kill them. There's
no other option.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: All of this, as
Secretary of State
John Kerry prepares to meet with
his Russian
counterpart tomorrow, in a new
effort to rekindle
ceasefire talks.
Buddhist funeral rites have
begun in Thailand,
for the man who was the world's
longest- reigning
monarch. Thousands gathered in
Bangkok today
for a royal procession and
ceremonies to mourn
the king, who died yesterday. He
ruled for
70 years, enjoying enormous
popularity and
ties to the military regime. The
body will
be cremated in the months ahead.
Back in this country, the
Transportation Department
has banned all passengers and
crews from bringing
Samsung Galaxy Note 7
smartphones on board
planes. They issued the
emergency order after
reports of the device catching
fire. Samsung
had already discontinued the
phones earlier
this week.
United Airlines says it has
resolved an overnight
computer glitch that delayed
thousands of
passengers worldwide. Travelers
from Paris
to New York reported waiting up
to several
hours. It comes just two months
after Delta
Airlines canceled thousands of
flights after
a power outage affected its
computers.
As of today, it's a lot easier
to bring Cuban
cigars and rum into the U.S. The
Obama administration
says it's relaxing limits on
bringing those
products back from Cuba. Now,
returning travelers
will be allowed up to 100
cigars, and several
bottles of rum. It's the latest
loosening
of the trade embargo on Cuba.
The U.S. Treasury Department
reports running
a $587 billion budget deficit
this past fiscal
year. That's up 34 percent over
the previous
fiscal year, due to a slowdown
in revenues
and higher government spending.
And on Wall Street, stocks
closed higher,
led by gains in the technology
and banking
sectors. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average
climbed 39 points to close at
18,138. The
NASDAQ rose nearly a point, and
the S&P 500
added half a point. For the
week, the Dow
lost a fraction of a percent,
and both the
NASDAQ and the S&P 500 fell
around 1 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour",
how some
women in the swing state of
North Carolina
see this election, an investor's
view of the
presidential candidates, Mark
Shields and
David Brooks weigh in on the
Trump allegations,
and Seth Meyers on comedy's role
in this year's
election.
(BREAK)
WOODRUFF: Rarely has the female
vote held
as much sway in a presidential
race as this
year, even before the recent
allegations of
sexual aggression were leveled
against Donald
Trump.
This week, I traveled to the
crucial swing
state of North Carolina -- a
state that voted
Obama in 2008, but flipped to
Mitt Romney
and the Republicans in 2012.
Four years later,
there's no slice of electorate
being fought
over more than college educated
white women
-- and that's who we went
looking for.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I
originally thought
this cartoon of a man is not
going to get
very far, and how could he? And
here we are.
And I am disgusted.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is
just basically
saying, "Well, boys will be
boys." Not acceptable.
Not acceptable to me. And
certainly not becoming
of someone I would wish to be
our president.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I wouldn't
want that
man in my home, I wouldn't want
him in my
classroom. So, I don't want him
in my White
House.
WOODRUFF: A few of the reactions
from women
voters we talked to in North
Carolina. Even
women looking for a Republican
to support,
were repelled they said by the
11-year-old
video of Donald Trump.
TRUMP: I better use some Tic
Tacs just in
case I start kissing her.
WOODRUFF: And coming in the
final month of
the campaign, it and the
accusations of the
past few days have thrown the
already-crucial
women's vote here into sharper
relief.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you
guys registered
to vote?
WOODRUFF: If you needed proof of
how much
the Tar Heel state's 15
electoral votes matter,
look no further than the campus
of the University
of North Carolina in Chapel
Hill. Clinton
volunteers were in a last-minute
push to meet
today's voter registration
deadline.
Among the most coveted voters
are college-educated
white women, who in 2012 gave
Mitt Romney
a six point advantage
nationally. This year,
polls show Donald Trump is
losing them by
a staggering 30 points.
FERREL GUILLORY, DIRECTOR,
PROGRAM ON PUBLIC
LIFE AT UNC: Frankly, women,
women are gonna
make up their own minds, you
know, unlike
you know, kind of the old South,
where everybody
voted together. And women went
to vote the
way their husbands did. I -- I
don't think
that holds.
WOODRUFF: Ferrel Guillory, a
professor at
UNC's School of Media and
Journalism, says
energizing millennial women is
one part of
Clinton's challenge.
GUILLORY: The millennial
generation is now
larger than the baby boom
generation, but
it doesn't vote with the same
potency. So,
she has the opportunity to bring
new voters
into the electorate,
particularly women.
WOODRUFF: We sat down with two
millennials,
18-year-old freshman Kim
D'Onofrio and 25-
year old PhD student Kyla
Wagner. D'Onofrio
had supported Bernie Sanders
early in the
primary process, but --
KIM D'’ONOFRIO: When Hillary won
the nomination,
I just sort of accepted it
immediately. It's
important to have somebody who
understands
how that world works. But do you
really think
that Donald Trump would be able
to -- you
can't just shove your foot
through the door
when it comes to American
politics. You have
to take your time. It's
difficult.
WOODRUFF: Wagner is a registered
Republican
who wanted to see the White
House back in
GOP hands. And when Trump beat
out the others,
Wagner says she did give him
serious consideration
at first.
KYLA GARRETT WAGNER: I'd like to
think I gave
him an honest opportunity, but
as a young
woman, newly married, interested
in not only
the progress I'’m going to have
as a career
woman, but as a mother, I just
really did
not feel and still do not feel
like Donald
Trump understands the needs of
the holistic
American woman. I do feel that
Hillary Clinton
will work tirelessly to get some
of the issues
I'’m most concerned about
addressed, paid
paternity leave, reassurance
that Roe v. Wade
will stay, and the overall
protection of women's
health.
WOODRUFF: North Carolina is a
top priority
for both campaigns. President
Obama was here
just this week, Michelle Obama
last week.
On Tuesday, Mike Pence showed up
in Charlotte.
And today, Donald Trump is in
Greensboro.
The voters they're looking for
live in towns
like Apex, which are exploding
in population.
Much of that growth is fueled by
an influx
of college educated workers who
have come
here to raise their families.
The men tilt
Republican, but statewide,
college-educated
women -- who went for Mitt
Romney four years
ago -- this time are struggling
to support
Donald Trump.
Fifty-one-year-old Elizabeth
Wakeford has
lived in North Carolina for
decades. She's
voted for both parties in past
presidential
elections, but not this year --
she plans
to write in a candidate.
ELIZABETH WAKEFORD: I would love
for a woman
to be president, I'’m certainly
not adverse
to that, just not this woman.
The emails are
concerning in terms of national
security.
I do worry what might have been
in there that
got carelessly shared with
others.
WOODRUFF: So, that's Hillary
Clinton. What
about Donald Trump? What's your
sense of him?
WAKEFORD: It's kind of like a
junior high
student beating his chest going,
"Oh, yeah,
I'’m going to get you, and this
is how."
And you think, really? You're an
adult? You're
running for office -- the
highest office in
the land. What are you doing?
I cannot tell you how much I
cannot stand
that candidate. If I may make a
comparison,
Donald Trump is overtly
distasteful. I find
Hillary more covertly
distasteful.
WOODRUFF: Just 11 miles away,
41-year-old
Kristen Wynns lives in Cary with
her husband
Kevin and two children, Zoe and
Logan. A registered
Republican, she runs her own
psychology practice,
went to an all women's college
and is still
struggling about what to do in
November.
KRISTEN WYNNS: Putting my blood,
sweat, and
tears into my own practice for
the last nine
years, clearly, some of Trumps
tax laws and
his views on taxes and small
businesses are
quite appealing to me as a small
business
owner, but then I'’ve got the
women's college
blood coursing through my veins.
Love the
idea of a women president. I'’m
raising two
daughters, and some of Hillary
Clinton's beliefs
about closing the wage gap,
affirmative action,
girls and women not being the
victims of abuse
or assault.
WOODRUFF: Are you still
struggling with your
decision?
WYNNS: I am.
WOODRUFF: You think you're
leaning one way
or another at this point?
WYNNS: Can I be struggling and
leaning at
the same time?
WOODRUFF: Yes.
WYNNS: OK, then I think that's
where I am.
WOODRUFF: That day, Wynns told
us she was
leaning Trump. But we've stayed
in touch and
today, she told us in light of
all the allegations
made by women this week, she's
now truly stumped.
GUILLORY: Trump, with his words
and with his
life story, has demeaned women.
It's the coarseness
of the way he sees the world of
men and women.
And I think that's -- that is
destabilized
a segment of the electorate that
would ordinarily
vote for a Republican like Mitt
Romney or
a Republican like John McCain.
WOODRUFF: Eight miles south of
Cary, in the
Raleigh suburb of Apex, the
evidence of exploding
growth is plain to see -- new
homes popping
up everywhere.
Michele Hilmey, a New York
transplant and
registered Democrat, says the
tone of the
campaign has been particularly
difficult,
especially for her 8-year-old
son Nate.
MICHELE HILMEY: Donald Trump was
accepting
the Republican nomination. We
were all gathered
around, we were actually
visiting some family
out of town, and I happen to
look over at
him and he was crying. And he
was confused.
He thought that Donald Trump was
the president
at that point. We had to explain
that he was
just accepting the nomination.
But when I pressed him as to why
he was crying
he said, "Mom, I hear on the TV
all the time
that Donald Trump hates women."
That was shocking
to me, I just couldn't believe
that he absorbed
that, that he gleaned that from
conversations
knowing that his mom, and his
sister, and
his grandma that he loved so
dearly are women.
WOODRUFF: For now, Hilmey is
undecided, but
leaning toward Clinton. But she
says she hopes
for the sake of both her family
and the country,
the politicians who do get
elected will work
to find common ground.
HILMEY: We cannot continue as a
country to
say, "I'’m a Democrat, you're a
Republican,
there is no space in the
middle," we cannot
continue to have these extreme
one-sided beliefs.
There has to be ground in the
middle or we'll
never move forward.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WOODRUFF: And a note, as we
reported at the
top of the program, late today,
North Carolina
extended voter registration in
36 counties
due to the flooding.
(BREAK)
WOODRUFF: Now, the second of two
perspectives
on the campaign from the world
of business.
Yesterday, correspondent Paul
Solman talked
to LinkedIn co-founder Reid
Hoffman, a Hillary
Clinton supporter.
Tonight, Paul sits down with Tom
Barrack.
He'’s a friend of, economic
advisor to, and
fundraiser for Donald Trump. It
is the second
take this week of our series,
"Making Sense".
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
TOM BARRACK, FRIEND OF DONALD
TRUMP: I'’m
the first kid to ever go to
college, first
kid to ever go to law school.
PAUL SOLMAN, PBS NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT: Billionaire
Tom Barrack, the son of Lebanese
immigrants,
made his fortune as a real
estate investor.
Though his firm, Colony Capital,
has taken
stakes in more visible, if
unconventional
assets as well, like Michael
Jackson's Neverland
Ranch, film company Miramax, and
the debt
of photographer Annie Leibovitz.
His showbiz
investments often made with his
friend actor
Rob Lowe.
But the southern California
educated polo-playing
mogul spoke with us on behalf of
his business
associate of longstanding,
Donald Trump.
Is the reason you're one of the
only two top
executives who were willing to
talk to us
in support of Mr. Trump because
you're fearless?
BARRACK: It starts with number
one: he's a
friend. And number two: with
him, it's the
personal things of compassion,
and kindness,
and intellectual acuity, and the
ability to
make decisions that I think I
could help explain.
SOLMAN: Barrack met the
candidate when he
sold Mr. Trump New York's Plaza
Hotel in the
1980s, as he recounted at the
Republican National
Convention.
BARRACK: He said, "No contract.
No contract.
You and I shake hands right
here, no lawyers,
no contract, no nothing. You
just tell me
the things that I should know
and how to fix
it and I'll do this deal." He
played me like
a Steinway piano.
SOLMAN: A few years after the
deal, Trump
filed for bankruptcy and the
plaza was sold
at a loss. But the two have been
friends ever
since.
Barrack is one of Trump's
economic advisors
because, he says, among other
reasons --
BARRACK: We have an unequal
barbell society.
The rich are getting richer, the
poor are
getting poorer, middle class is
evaporating.
I see it every day in our
businesses.
So, somebody has to intervene,
other than
professional politicians who are
paid to increase
the bureaucratic morass of what
everybody
else is dealing with.
SOLMAN: But, Mr. Trump's policy
with regard
to, for example, taxes, would
actually cut
taxes more on the people who are
on the -- I
don't know, the richer side of
the barbell.
BARRACK: Well, I don't think
it's -- it's
fair to say that, right? The
concept is, that
if you incent people to take
risk, they will
take risk. They'll infuse more
capital into
the system. And at the higher
end of that
-- of that equation, that'll
eventually produce
more growth, and growth will
produce more
opportunity, and the tax base
itself will
increase.
But it takes all of us on the
outside, gently
knocking at that door, and
saying, it's time
to reexamine these things, let's
do it.
SOLMAN: Well, it's not gentle
knocking at
the moment, right? I mean, Mr.
Trump is not
a "gentle knocker."
BARRACK: Well, actually, on the
policy side,
I think it is gentle. The
rhetoric is not
gentle. I think they're both
better than that.
I think Hillary is very
accomplished and very
capable, and I think people
would be surprised
at the -- the intellectual
ability of Donald
on these issues.
SOLMAN: "Conciliator," you said
in one interview.
BARRACK: Yes, absolutely. And
you think about
the difficulty of building a
Trump Tower.
I mean, you have 100
constituencies that you
have to bring together, and then
you have
to be able to sell it to
somebody who's going
to lend you the money. Making
deals and negotiations
to me is where the United States
is going
to have to go in the next
decade. We haven't
been good at it.
You have Donald, who has no
political background,
but has a very good background
in being able
to coalesce these
constituencies, most of
the time successfully, sometime
not successfully,
who's saying, "I will challenge
that system,
and I'll bring in people who
understand the
system, but people who are not
of the system."
SOLMAN: But he's giving no
indication that
that's what he's like, when he
appears in
public, in the debate, when he
appears at
rallies and so forth, right?
BARRACK: Yes. It's true. This
crass sense
of who he is, which comes out of
vignettes,
which he doesn't help, right?
Because he's
not apologizing for things the
way --
SOLMAN: Yes.
BARRACK: -- that we would,
right? That being
said, I think a man who has the
courage to
say, "Look, interpret it however
you want.
I'’m not a political animal, so I
make mistakes,
and that'’s who I am" is
refreshing.
SOLMAN: You have no concerns
that he might
go too far, that he might do
things -- threatening,
for example, Secretary Clinton,
with putting
her in jail? I mean, that
doesn't bother you?
BARRACK: Look, all, all of that
quite personally
bothers me. It bothers me having
her attacked,
it bothers me having him
attacked. I don't
see any benefit in either of
those things.
It's this cat fight that's
becoming disheartening.
SOLMAN: And if Donald Trump, as
he will, hears
you saying this, he's not going
to be upset
with you?
BARRACK: No, he will! He hates
it when I say
that, because, in his view, the
cat fighting
is what's important. In other
words, the emails,
the lack of credibility, the
lack of integrity.
I look at it differently,
saying, look, I
have a private server, and I
have a public
server. And I know how
complicated it is,
just for me as a little guy
trying to keep
track of things.
I quite honestly think somebody
of Hillary's
ilk is not intentionally doing
any of that.
And a foundation, if you're
president of the
United States then you have to
go get a job,
what are you gonna do, be a
caddy! Right?
I mean, you're going to do
something elegant,
you're going to go out to the
world and you're
going to form a foundation, and
you're going
to do big things.
So, if you then do those big
things, and somebody
needs to get invited to a lunch,
is it -- is
it so out of place that you're
going to invite
somebody who's a contributor
versus somebody
else. You know, the things to me
are not the
issue.
SOLMAN: But Barrack says there
are a host
of economic issues Donald Trump
would positively
address.
BARRACK: Fair trade, a monetary
policy that's
failed with quantitative easing
and a focus
on jobs is employment and normal
people having
an education and healthcare
system.
SOLMAN: But, Mr. Trump has had
almost no specific
proposals for how to deal with
any of the
things you're talking about,
except to say,
"No!" to the trade deals,
"They're bad. I'’m
going to make them better."
BARRACK: So, here's why I think
that it's
not as silly as it sounds. So,
if you take
trade, you have every senator
and congressman
that has a different view, that
all have special
interests that need to be
vetted, and, by
the time that you get to the
efficacy of any
trade agreement, it's illusory.
So, I think,
somebody like Mr. Trump coming
in, saying,
"Look, I don't know. I'’m not
sure on the
trade side, I'’m not sure on
central bank
intervention."
SOLMAN: But, blow it up.
BARRACK: Not blow it up, I'’m
gonna bring
the best minds that I can find,
and I'’m
going to take it apart and I'’m
gonna make
it better, because I have no
vested baggage
in it.
SOLMAN: But to Tom Barrack,
Hillary Clinton
is part of the economic system
and that system
is broken: over-indebted, over
bureaucratized,
overregulated, overtaxed --
problems papered
over by a Federal Reserve that's
printed too
much money.
Are you saying that the economy,
the United
States economy is a mirage? The
extent to
which things look good, markets
look good?
Unemployment is down?
BARRACK: Of course, it's
artificial stimulation
and an illusion.
SOLMAN: And it's going to end
catastrophically?
BARRACK: My belief is, unless
something happens,
it will end catastrophically,
one way or the
other.
SOLMAN: And so, the, something
that would
prevent it from happening would
be?
BARRACK: A disruption.
SOLMAN: Like Mr. Trump's
election.
BARRACK: Yes.
SOLMAN: And, is that what's
fundamentally
driving you economically?
BARRACK: Absolutely. Absolutely.
A hundred
percent.
So, I think whoever the next
president is,
it's going to be high on their
list, and that
Congress will pay attention this
time. And
that they'll move it. It'll move
15 degrees
with one, seven degrees with the
other, but
I think the debate will have
done a good job
of getting them to move period.
SOLMAN: Tom Barrack, thank you
very much.
BARRACK: It was great to be with
you, thanks.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WOODRUFF: And with that, we turn
to the analysis
of Shields and Brooks. That's
syndicated columnist
Mark Shields and "New York
Times" columnist
David Brooks.
Welcome, gentlemen.
Well, what a week. And it keeps
coming. David,
these allegations against Donald
Trump, some
of them we can't even describe
in full here
on this program. He said --
they'’re very
graphic, he says they didn't
happen, these
are all lies.
Is this just more of the same or
have we reached
a new low?
DAVID BROOKS, THE NEW YORK
TIMES: I guess
we've always reached a new low,
Judy, every
Friday. So, we'’re on a weekly
basis. His
case would be better if he
hadn't bragged
about doing exactly what he's
alleged to have
done.
And so, you know, when you get
five or six
of these people coming out, some
of whom said
things contemporaneously, I
don't know if
it'’s dispositive, but it's kind
compelling.
And the fact that we'’re talking
about a
major presidential candidate
behaving this
way in 2016, it'’s kind of
astounding. And
the fact that the guy is still
walking and
the guy has a lot of support
among a lot of
decent people, I don't know what
the word
s. And so, you just -- just
gobsmacked, British
would say, surprised out of your
wits end
that we'’re here.
JUDY WOODRUFF, PBS NEWSHOUR
ANCHOR: Gobsmacked,
Mark?
MARK SHEILDS, SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST: I'’ve
never been gobsmacked, but I
know David -- David
has been -- I just have to say,
Judy, it amazes
me that anybody with anything
approaching
this background, the tape alone
would run
for president. I mean, given --
WOODRUFF: You mean the "Access
Hollywood"
tape.
SHIELDS: Yes, the "Access
Hollywood". I mean,
irrespective of these charges,
charges are
quite serious, but I mean, I had
one Republican
reminded me today, well, how did
Dennis Hastert
accept the speakership with that
in his background?
So -- but I don't know what
point you start
to think that you're invisible
or just bulletproof.
And that -- I have to say that
the singular
impressive moment of the week to
me was Michelle
Obama. It was -- because she
took it out of
a -- sort of a "men should be
ashamed" or
whatever, into a -- and women
are victims
-- into a very I thought human
terms and spoke
about the pain and the outrage
that she felt.
And if you are talking about
somebody as unassailable
critic, she is, A, the most
popular political
figure in the country. She is
the best known
mother and mother two of
daughters, wife,
professional woman and happens
to be African
American. But I just thought
authentic in
the air that'’s been synthetic in
so many
respects, and we hear about
campaigns and
what'’s going on. I just thought
that was
an authentic moment, I thought
it was a defining
in this campaign.
BROOKS: And sign of national
malaise that
we're all dragged into because
of the conversation
we have to have. And I will say
--
WOODRUFF: That we have to talk
about.
BROOKS: Yes, and I will say one
other thing,
you know, oppo research gets a
bad name. You
shouldn't go after your
opponent, you shouldn'’t
go dig them up, but if Marco
Rubio and Jeb
Bush or John Kasich have decent
oppo research,
and had unearthed this in the
primary, it
would have spared the country a
lot of turmoil.
And their own party, a lot of
self destruction.
WOODRUFF: So, you think they
should have been
doing this.
BROOKS: Well, things should come
up. They
had a lot of candidates in that
race, once
Republicans had a lot of decent
choices, they
could have looked away from
Trump to somebody
they could have stomached and it
would have
been fine. But now, and you
watch a lot of
Republicans who just feel -- you
feel like
they're lock in.
And then you feel other
Republicans in morally
incoherent state. Last week, a
couple of senators
calling for Trump to step down,
and he didn'’t
step down. And now, they're
saying, we'll
vote for him, which is morally
incoherent.
If you want them step down, you
can't vote
for the guy to be president of
the United
States.
And then you have a lot of
people saying,
I'll just play it cool. I'’ll
just be with
him. I'll be good Republican,
and then when
he goes away, I'll just be fine.
That is not the case. This is
not like supporting
Barry Goldwater in 1964. This is
like supporting
Joe McCarthy and you will not be
fine. And
a lot of the people are just
hanging around
on the fence or alienating both
sides by being
somewhere in the middle will not
be recovering
so easily, I do not think.
WOODRUFF: How do you explain
their calculus?
SHIELDS: Well, I think -- I
think the people
who switch last weekend after
the "Access
Hollywood" tape, are ones who
are in the most
trouble politically. I think it
was politically
--
WOODRUFF: You mean because they
waited?
SHIELDS: First of all, if I'’m a
Trump supporter,
loyal supporter this is hour of
maximum peril.
And these are the people who
picked up the
knife and plunged it into his
back when he
was really hurting, I won't
forget that as
a Trump supporter. If I'’m one of
the people
like Mitt Romney or Ben Sasse of
Nebraska
who early on said this man is
unacceptable,
I have a legitimate question and
say, wait
a minute, what was it that
finally tipped
it? I mean, you know, it wasn't
the judge,
it wasn't libeling Mexican
immigrants, it
wasn't libeling prisoners of war
and their
courage or whatever else? I
mean, nothing
else he did, libeling women
throughout e,
but this did it because he
became politically
radioactive at that point?
So, I think -- I think in that
sense, I'’ve
already seen it in a poll,
congressional poll
where Republican member who had
changed, two
to one margin, constituents in a
post-weekend
poll, regarded it as act of
opportunism rather
than political courage. So, I
think David's
categories are right. It is a
difficult thing
to do, but if in fact he loses
and they lose
the Congress, Republicans lose
the Congress,
and I think that's the key, if
that happens,
then association with him will
have been regarded
as a permanent stain. Not
standing up to him
and calling him for what he has
done.
BROOKS: This is sort of
psychological question,
what happens, say he loses what
happens the
next day? Is there all the
Trumpians saying,
no, we were robbed, we are
robbed, we are
sticking with our man, we'’re
going into
some sort of revolt? Or is it,
like, I was
a loser and I'’m putting that
behind me.
My intuition about the
psychology is the latter
is more likely. That people are
just going
to throw Trump to history, and
then lot of
the sense that mass revolt, this
is not legitimate,
this is not legitimate, I don't
think that's
likely to happen.
SHIELDS: Could I just a little
dissent there.
WOODRUFF: Sure.
SHIELDS: I think reaction is,
Judy, whether
the Republicans see themselves
as congressional
party or presidential party. If
Donald Trump
loses badly, OK, and Republicans
lose the
Congress, lose the Senate, lose
the House,
which is for this first week
people are talking
about, Republicans are even
talking about
it. If that were to happen they
say, in 2018
we'll come back because the
natural sequence
of things, Republicans then
return to majority.
This is what Democrats went
through, 1980,
1984, 1988, the Democratic
presidential candidates
won total of 17 states in three
presidential
elections cumulatively. But they
kept the
Congress. So, insulated the
congressional
party they said just the
candidates' fault.
If the Republicans, you know,
take a whipping
across the board, we're doing
something wrong,
not just the presidential level
but the congressional
level, then I think you'’ll see
the soul-searching.
WOODRUFF: But I want to ask you
both about
what happens to the country. I
know we're
still 3 1/2 weeks away. But what
happens to
the country after this election,
David? I
mean, there are people at Trump
-- Trump himself
is saying, this thing is rigged,
it could
be stolen. People are booing the
press. They
cheer him on when he says the
country, there's
a big conspiracy.
How do you put anything
together? I already
hear from people saying how is
the country
going to be put together after
this?
BROOKS: Yes, I will say Hillary
Clinton wins,
there are two scenarios. One,
that there's
such a vicious hatred that
nothing going to
happen. But I happen to think
she was mediocre
secretary of state, but I
thought she was
an excellent senator and very
good at working
around the aisle. McCain,
Lindsey Graham,
John Barrasso, she was good.
And so, I see possibility
whatever is happening
out there in the country, I
think there will
be a -- people may check out for
a little
while because they will be so
exhausted, so
down, including a lot of Trump
people. That
she may have an opportunity, at
least elite
level to be effective in some
way if she picks
issues that sensible Republicans
can sign
on to.
And they're going to want to put
a window
-- or a curtain between what
just happened
and what they are going forward.
So, you could
paint an optimistic scenario.
So, I'’m clinging
to that against all odds.
WOODRUFF: But Trump voters are
going to want
to listen to her, Mark, if she
were elected?
SHIELDS: You know, what's going
to -- I think
David's point is a good, Judy. I
don't know.
I hope so. I hope that's the
case, I think
it comes down -- I mean, Hillary
Clinton highest
moment in public life was in the
United States
Senate. I mean, she was good at
it.
She made 130 trips to New York
on first 18
months. She went to subcommittee
meetings.
She insisted on sharing the
spotlight. She
turned down the Sunday -- I
mean, she was
really good. She recognized that
this was
a collaborative, collegial. And
you know,
we hope that that -- will be
some response
to that.
You know, I think it comes down
to the -- it
comes down to how she does it. I
think it
comes down to some degree how
President Obama
handles the transition.
WOODRUFF: Well, we are -- I
don't want to
jump in too much, but we still
have days to
go before this election is over.
SHIELDS: Yes, we do.
WOODRUFF: But we're taking about
Hillary Clinton,
another -- David, another
WikiLeaks dump this
week from what apparently the
Russians hacked
from the Democrats, from Hillary
Clinton's
own campaign manager, John
Podesta. Is there
anything consequential there
that we're seeing
in these day after day of e-mail
dumps?
BROOKS: Well, I was shocked to
how boring
it was. Usually, if you'’re in
the height
of campaign, they are setting up
private e-mails,
ripping into so-and-so.
(CROSSTALK)
BROOKS: Exactly. There is some
stuff like
the Catholic -- lot of people
who are Catholic
think there's -- become
Catholic, they don't
want to become evangelicals.
They'’re living
in cities so they become
Catholics. Catholics
are systematic thinkers. You
would say it's
like -- it'’s not like something
horrible.
You know, they're saying like
Bill de Blasio,
the mayor of New York, is kind
of annoying
and overbearing and Governor
Richardson from
New Mexico can be a bad guy or
sort of pain
in the rear.
But by the standard of what I
expected, to
get the inside of a campaign,
it's pretty
mild. I think Clinton people
should be lot
more imaginative.
WOODRUFF: Mark?
SHIELDS: I think, Judy, if there
weren'’t
what'’s going on with Donald
Trump's campaign,
I think it would be a big story.
I think it's
hard to make the case reading
those e-mails
that Hillary Clinton is a
candidate of change.
She's very much an establishment
candidate.
She's a status quo candidate.
The open borders, open trade,
the hemisphere
would have been -- would have
sent some signals
and shock waves. But -- and
there'’s a certain
moral arrogance I think,
especially on the
-- looking down their nose at
Catholics and
Evangelicals. I think that comes
through.
The thing about John Podesta,
ten years of
his e-mails, he's incredibly
discrete. I mean,
that's one of the reasons he'd
be able to
survive, but no candidate comes
through to
vote Hillary Clinton on her
inability to apologize,
it's been a problem. She has not
effectively,
believably apologized for the
e-mail, the
personal e-mail server to this
moment.
WOODRUFF: And there was a draft
that was leaked
of the speech that she might
have given where
she would have been a little bit
more direct
but she didn't give that
version. We're still
sorting it out.
BROOKS: And the key point, which
is why Trump
is still in the race, it does
indeed make
her look like very pinion of the
establishment
which happens to be true. So,
there are lot
of people who are supporting
Donald Trump
not because they like sexual
abuse but they
just think the country needs
some big, big
change, that she's not, they're
willing to
swallow a lot, it turns out.
WOODRUFF: David Brooks, Mark
Shields, we'’ll
see you next week. Thank you.
And tune in next Wednesday at
9:00 p.m. for
our coverage of the final
presidential debate.
Mark and David will be with us.
And in the meantime, you can
watch all the
presidential and vice
presidential debates
dating back to 1960. Pull up a
chair and that'’s
at our new website,
watchthedebates.org.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
LLOYD BENTSEN, FORMER VICE
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
Senator, you'’re no Jack Kennedy.
GERALDINE FERRARO, FORMER VICE
PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE: I almost resent, Vice
President
Bush, you'’re patronizing.
MITT ROMNEY, FORMER PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE:
Whole binders full of women.
MICHAEL DUKAKIS, FORMER
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE:
I have proposed death penalty
during all of
my life.
ANNOUNCER: Interact with all the
general election
debates on our website
watchthedebates.org.
(END VIDEO CLIP)
WOODRUFF: Turning a corner,
after decades
of health warnings, cigarette
sales have fallen
sharply in the United States and
Europe, but
multinational tobacco
corporations are targeting
huge new markets in the
developing world,
including countries in Asia. In
a report produced
with Global Health Frontiers,
Hari Sreenivasan
explains that in the
Philippines, anti-smoking
activists are now pushing back.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
ACTIVISTS: We want the pictures
now! Pictures
save lives!
HARI SREENIVASAN, PBS NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT:
On the streets in Manila,
demonstrators march
against tobacco.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We want to
make our voices
heard.
SREENIVASAN: Their cause is
supported by the
medical profession here.
DR. TONY LEACHON, PHILIPPINE
COLLEGE OF PHYSICIAN:
Smoking's the number one killer
in the Philippines.
SREENIVASAN: Dr. Tony Leachon is
the president
of the Philippine College of
Physicians.
LEACHON: For the young
Filipinos, smoking
is considered a macho image for
men.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I know it's
bad -- it's
bad for our health, but this is
to relax myself
out from work.
RACHEL ROSARIO, PHILIPPINE
CANCER SOCIETY:
Culturally, smoking seems to be
an accepted
mode of socialization, an
accepted mode of
relaxation.
SREENIVASAN: Rachel Rosario is
with the Philippine
Cancer Society.
ROSARIO: There is that vision of
holding a
cigarette and smoking with
makeup -- it seems
to be something that we have to
fight against.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's really
hard to kick
the habit. I try to lessen it
down, cut it,
but then you always have that
urge.
SREENIVASAN: The fight against
smoking here
won a major victory four years
ago when the
Philippine Congress passed what
is called
the "Sin Tax Law", imposing a
tax that effectively
doubled the price of cigarettes.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (translated):
It'’s expensive.
It'’s five pesos a stick.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE (translated):
The effect
on me is I'’m smoking less. It's
more expensive.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I used to
be a pack a
day, now I'’m like half.
SREENIVASAN: Dr. Maria Encarnita
Limpin leads
the framework convention on
Tobacco Control
Alliance Philippines.
DR. ENCARNITA BLANCO-LIMPIN,
TOBACCO CONTROL
ALLIANCE PHILIPPINES: From 1990
to 2008, the
rate of smoking in the country
has never really
gone below 30 percent. The
latest survey that
we did in the country showed
dramatic drop
in the prevalence rate of
smoking. This time,
it is going down from above 31
percent to
25 percent. That's a big
deduction.
SREENIVASAN: Private held
leaders say a major
reason why the sin tax law was
passed was
the grassroots campaign
organized by cancer
survivor Emer Roxas.
EMER ROJAS, CANCER SURVIVOR: I
started smoke
can at the age of 17. And at the
age of 44,
I got stage 4 throat cancer, and
that was
12 years ago. They removed my
vocal cords
so that the cancer would go
away.
SREENIVASAN: Before cancer,
Rojas was a successful
engineer, businessman and radio
broadcaster.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I still
remember that
voice when he was singing.
Before, he used
to sing a lot whenever there was
a birthday
party.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He loves to
sing "I Left
My Heart in San Francisco."
ROJAS: That's my favorite song.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Yes, I
know.
SREENIVASAN: Rojas says he felt
he was given
a second life, and he decided he
would commit
his life to making people aware
of what happened
to him because of smoking, and
his family
has joined him.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: All of us
in the family,
we're volunteers.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I want to
save lives
of other people. I don'’t want
for them to
experience what we experience
with Emer.
SREENIVASAN: With rallies,
speeches, and messaging
on radio and television, Rojas
developed the
new voice association as a
powerful advocate
against smoking, especially to
protect children.
LIMPIN: All of the strategies of
the tobacco
companies, particularly their
advertising
strategy. They'’re all geared to
hook the
young children into starting
smoking at an
earlier age. And since of the
adults would
actually grow old and eventually
die. And
therefore, they need new market.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The children
agree that
cigarette smoking is really bad,
right, kids?
Cigarette smoking is bad.
STUDENTS: Cigarette smoking is
bad.
SREENIVASAN: Another new law,
following examples
in other countries, requires
health warnings
and graphic pictures on
cigarette packaging.
LEACHON: The graphic health
warnings have
been helpful in other countries,
and basically
we're going to use this for the
young population,
of course, to women as well.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I'’ve been
to some airports
and they do sell those packs
with pictures
of throat cancer, your lungs are
all wrecked
up, I guess it made you think a
bit, but at
the end of the day, I'’m, like,
where's my
pack of cigarettes?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Pictures save
lives!
SREENIVASAN: After months of
delay, and rallies
like this, the law requiring
graphic health
warnings is now in effect. But
public health
advocates say they've not yet
won the war
against tobacco. Millions of
Filipinos still
face lifelong addiction, and the
benefits
from the sin tax and graphic
warnings won't
be clearly evident for decades.
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: One, two,
three --
STUDENTS: Do not smoke!
UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Very good!
SREENIVASAN: For the "PBS
NewsHour", I'’m
Hari Sreenivasan.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
(BREAK)
WOODRUFF: Next, the presidential
campaign
is often ripe fodder for
comedians and late
night TV. But this year, you
might say, is
a little different. The campaign
season brought
Seth Meyers, who cut his teeth
as a head writer
at "Saturday Night Live", to
Washington this
week where he has been hosting
his "Late Night"
program for NBC.
Jeffrey Brown joined him at the
Warner Theater.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
SETH MEYERS, LATE NIGHT WITH
SETH MEYERS:
My new set, it's technically
really just the
same furniture in a different
place.
JEFFREY BROWN, PBS NEWSHOUR: You
even brought
your own desk.
MEYERS: My own desk, yes. When a
man hosts
a show he builds a relationship
with the desk,
and you can't just--
BROWN: Not just any desk.
MEYERS: You can't be promiscuous
with the
desk. You have to be loyal to
one desk.
So yeah, we brought it down.
Good evening, everybody. I'’m
Seth Meyers.
This is "Late Night". We're in
Washington
D.C.
BROWN: The nation's capital: a
destination,
Seth Meyers told me, that fits
with the DNA
of his show.
MEYERS: They thought it was
totally normally
to just start walking off the
stage while
Hillary was giving an answer.
Where is he going? What'’s back
there, the
ash heap of history?
BROWN: Biting, direct, sometimes
using raw
language -- Meyers' monologues
have become
increasingly political.
DONALD TRUMP (R), PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE:
Barack Obama was born in the
United States,
period.
MEYERS: President Obama was born
in the United
States, period? (EXPLETIVE
DELETED) you, exclamation
point!
BROWN: Targeting Donald Trump in
particular.
When we met in the Warner
Theater last Friday,
just before the leak of the 2005
"Access Hollywood"
tape, I asked about the daily
focus on Trump.
MEYERS: Well, it's really
because of what
he's doing. You know, we're not
going out
and sort of -- we don't feel
like we're making
ad hominem attacks on him and
just every day
saying, "We got to find
something on him."
You know, it's on the front page
of the paper
every day. You know, we do feel
pretty strongly
about everything. You know, I
feel like comedy
these days particularly is
allowed to have
a point of view.
BROWN: What do you mean "these
days?" as opposed
to?
MEYERS: Well, I think when you
go back to
Johnny Carson, I think there was
a real sense
that you didn't really know
exactly what he
felt. And Jay Leno, you didn't
really know
exactly what he felt. And I
think that for
that era, those guys were making
the right
decision.
Now, you know, there's so many
shows like
mine. There are shows that live
a little bit
more by that Carson model, and
then there
are shows like mine that can --
thanks to
Jon Stewart's "Daily Show,"
thanks to the
"Colbert Report" -- like we can
live in a
world now where people tune in
and they do
want to know what we're
thinking, and we've
certainly taken advantage of
that this election.
What a great time to be in
Washington. The
Nationals won yesterday.
(APPLAUSE)
The Redskins won yesterday!
And the orange skin lost.
BROWN: Traditionally, to
entertain, make us
laugh, to help us end the day
to, help us
go to sleep.
MEYERS: Sure.
BROWN: OK. But that's not what
you're doing.
MEYERS: Yes. I mean, we want to
be informative,
and we want to talk about issues
that we care
about and we also think other
people care
about. But we really, I can't
stress enough,
if we can't get enough jokes in
them, we will
cut it that night -- like we
have to also
be entertaining.
BROWN: Yes, but I watch, I see
that there's
a lot of jokes, but there's also
a lot of
very serious what you could call
political
analysis in it.
MEYERS: I would say we try to
explain with
jokes and probably some analysis
comes out
every now and then. I don't know
if I would
take it to the bank though. You
should double
-- you should back up everything
that you
see on our show with another
source.
BROWN: You're not going that
far. No "trust
everything we say."
MEYERS: I will say we try very
hard to be
fair as far as what we present,
as far as
being factually correct. I'’m
sure people
-- I'’m sure there's plenty of
people who
watch my show that don't think
we're fair
at all because we hold a
contrasting point
of view to what they have, and I
think that
I completely respect and they're
entitled
to that position.
BROWN: Do you think or do you
want to influence
people in this election? You
clearly support
one candidate over another. At
least that's
the appearance.
MEYERS: I think if you go back,
we have not
been particularly supportive of
Hillary Clinton.
How many emails does Hillary
Clinton have
that she can just miss 15,000?
Oh, no, is
she one of those weirdoes has
them unread
on her phone?
But we've certainly been harder
on Donald
Trump.
I don't think in comedy, support
is a particularly
funny position to have. I think
it's far more
-- it's far funnier to point out
people's
flaws as opposed to pointing out
their strengths.
This is an election where one
has so many
more flaws than the other that
it's naturally
drawn our focus to that.
BROWN: But conversely, have you
ever felt
that you wanted to go a little
easier on Hillary
Clinton because you're afraid of
pushing people
toward Trump?
MEYERS: I don't. I really don't
think we have
that kind of influence. So, I
really haven't
thought about it that way.
BROWN: You don't think you have
that influence.
MEYERS: I don't think we have
BROWN: But what about when most
every late
night host seems to be taking
off after Trump
night after night?
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We've barely
scratched
the surface of this scandal.
BROWN: When Jimmy Fallon served
up a more
traditional friendly late night
interview
with Trump, sharp criticism came
from another
late night host, Samantha Bee.
SAMANTHA BEE, LATE NIGHT HOST:
NBC tacitly
condoned a race-baiting
demagogue.
BROWN: Some commentators,
including "New York
Times" columnist Ross Douthat,
are critical
of a late night "echo chamber,"
and note a
feeling by Trump supporters of,
quote, "being
suffocated by the left's
cultural dominance."
MEYERS: We try very hard not to
be an echo
chamber, and I hope people don't
take us as
that. And I really do respect
the fact that
for some people, my show might
be frustrating
for them to watch based on what
they believe
in, and I respect those beliefs.
But again,
I don't want to have to try to
change my show
to something I don't believe in.
And again, you know, there's so
many options
for people to watch television
right now.
There's so many places to go.
Take away the fact that you
might not like
any of your late night options
on a given
night, people are I'’m sure just
going to
Netflix and watching some
documentary.
BROWN: Or just go to sleep.
MEYERS: That's our biggest
competition. Don't
ever think that it's not sleep.
BROWN: You are of course in a
ratings business.
Have you seen any impact of what
you're doing
in this?
MEYERS: We haven't. We really
haven't.
BROWN: So you don't get any
pressure to tone
it down.
MEYERS: No. Again, it's hard to
say. This
is a complete hypothetical,
because we haven't
seen anything. I mean, I would
assume that
if our ratings plummeted based
on anything
we were doing, the network would
politely
let me know. I can tell you up
to this point
they haven't. And they have my
number, and
they know where my office is.
BROWN: They know how to reach
you.
MEYERS: Yes.
BROWN: Seth Meyers, thank you
very much.
MEYERS: And thank you for having
me at the
coolest bar in Washington, D.C.
(END VIDEOTAPE)
WOODRUFF: And on the "NewsHour"
online right
now: British scientists who
re-mapped the
deepest corners of the universe
now believe
there are ten times as many
galaxies as once
thought. You can learn more
about the mind-boggling
discovery on our website:
pbs.org/newshour.
Tonight on "Washington Week:"
the campaign
finish line is in sight, but
both candidates
are confronting a new week of
controversy.
The "Washington Week" panel will
try to make
sense of it all here on your PBS
station.
On "PBS NewsHour Weekend
Saturday", car makers
are racing to build a
long-range, affordable
electric car to compete with
Tesla's success.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. On
Monday, we'll take a look at the
rise of the
far right wing of politics in
one European
country.
I'’m Judy Woodruff. Have a great
weekend.
Thank you and good night.
I'’m Judy Woodruff. Have a great
weekend.
Thank you and good night.